[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
Hello, everybody.
OK.
Well, thank you
for having me here.
What an amazing event
this is turning out to be.
So I'm really honored
to be here with such
a series of luminaries sharing
the stage with me up here.
So for today, we're going to
get into something a little bit
weird, a little bit strange.
And we're going to be
looking at something
I've been researching
for many years
with my co-author Jim Vieira,
who's in America at the moment,
and looking at the giants
of ancient Britain.
Now, there's lots
of myths, there's
lots of stories, lots of legends
about these giants related
to megalithic sites,
but there's also
a lot of connections
with the Bible lands.
And more recently,
I found connections
between many of the sites
here, which are often
related to giants, and
sites such as Gobekli Tepe
and Karahan Tepe in
Southeast Turkey.
So some of this is
brand new research
I'm really presenting
here for the first time.
But really, the most
inspirational site area
on the planet at the
moment, and my good friend
Andrew Collins will
back me up on this,
is Gobekli Tepe and Karahan
Tepe in Southeast Turkey,
which is a place we've
visited many times.
We do tours there
every September,
and May next year as well.
And we are-- there's
just something
about this place because
of the sheer antiquity,
but also the sheer
quality of the stonework.
And now, there's connections
with ancient Britain,
which have completely
blown my mind.
But previously, Jim and I
published this book, "Giants
On Record" back in 2015.
And we had 250
accounts in the book
of seven-foot,
18-foot tall skeletons
in the historical record often
recorded in the Smithsonian's
own annual reports.
And even there, we
found connections
with the Bible lands in
some of the discoveries.
This is our famous top 10
giants of North America.
And you can see, there's me
actually down on the bottom
left.
Well, my skeleton perhaps.
And it just shows you the
range we're dealing with here.
And many of these--
I mean, the 18-foot one
is a hard one to prove.
We haven't got the
bones to prove that one.
But some of them,
like the Smithsonian,
have been recording seven
to eight-foot skeletons.
Other academics have recorded
up to 10-foot skeletons
in North America.
But previously, authors like
L. A. Marzulli, Steve Quayle,
Timothy Alberino, and others,
have found a connection,
they think, to the nepheline
in ancient North America.
One example is this, this
is Chief Joseph who's
a Nez Perce leader from 1877.
And when he was kind of
arrested by the incomers
at the time, the Western
coming over from Europe,
they found this
strange tablet, which
was said to have
been from ancient--
the ancient Middle
East basically.
And it was recorded
in 1877 this.
And basically, he said
it had been passed down
in his family for
many generations.
And they inherited it from
their ancient white ancestors
who had come amongst those
people very long ago.
It was later discovered
from Dr. Robert Biggs, who's
a professor of assyriology
at the Oriental
Institute in Chicago, that
it actually dated to 2042 BC.
So we have some
connection, some kind
of proof of this ancient
connection with the Bible
lands in North America.
You also have this
very interesting site
in West Virginia called
Grave Creek Mound.
And it was here that a
potentially 7 foot 4 inch
female skeleton and an
8 foot male skeleton
were found in the 1800s.
And the bones were
extremely large.
Even a local resident
was described
as fitting the jaw of the
male skeleton over his face.
It was so big, something we find
a lot in our giant research.
But they found what's
called the Grave Creek
tablet that you can see here.
And it was decoded really as
potentially Phoenician or Punic
according to various
researchers, which
is basically, again,
from the Bible lands.
And it connects, I
think, to the Canaanites,
which we'll get on to later.
So there's more
accounts like this.
There's more than
this in North America,
but I wanted just to present
that to you initially.
Because in our book "The Giants
of Stonehenge and Ancient
Britain," we go
further with this.
We find more connections
to the Bible lands
and other areas
around the world.
And what I find really
interesting about this
it seems that Britain, the
giants here-- now often,
they're described as cannibals
or bumbling oafs and things
like this.
But actually, we
believe they were
masters of surveying
astronomy and landscape
knowledge to an
extremely high degree,
with similar ideas and
technologies coming
from the Middle East.
Many were remembered as
high kings and rulers
of the country, often inhabiting
mountain tops, hill forts,
and so on.
And they were held
in high esteem
by the people here
and possibly by people
from the rest of the world.
And so we're dealing with here
a real kind of elite status
class of giants.
And this is very similar
to the kind of thing
we find in North
America as well.
And we do know that
all over the country,
and you can see the map
here and the artwork here
created by our good friend Dan
Lish, that all over the country
we're finding this, in England,
Scotland, Ireland, and Wales
in equal measures.
And we even have skeletons
gone up to 21 feet tall.
But in the newspaper accounts
and the academic journals
and town account,
histories, ancient texts
that some of them that we
had to translate from Welsh
and so forth, we found at least
250 accounts of 7 foot to 21
foot tall skeletons, bones,
skulls, teeth, everything,
in the historical record, often
recorded by doctors, academics,
and so on.
And these were from--
there's even like royal
engineering survey data.
And people when they're digging
up foundations of homes,
they're finding these
giant skeletons.
And yet it's not talked about.
It's completely covered up.
There's nothing about it.
Now we know there's
a conspiracy,
a cover up in North America with
the Smithsonian institution.
But here, it seems
to be very similar.
So it's very hard
to find this data.
Although, we think we've
pulled most of it together
and put it in the book.
And then we even have a
top 10 giants of Britain
as well just for
good measure here.
And you'll see that there are
some very famous sites here
where these giant skeletons
and bones have been unearthed,
like Stonehenge for
instance, Maeshowe, Orkney,
even St. Michael's
Mount down in Cornwall.
This one is particularly
interesting,
because this was
recorded and it's
been published in National
Trust handbooks of a eight
or nine-foot skeleton
being found there.
And so we go into detail in
the book about this obviously.
But even when you look at
the myths and the foundation
stories of Britain, we have
the earliest inhabitants
are recorded as being
of the tool persuasion.
Some say they were descendants
of Noah's son, Ham,
and they came from Africa or the
Middle East thousands of years
ago.
Others say it was
Noah's son, Japheth,
who arrived even earlier.
And Noah's lineage is
linked with giants.
And it's worth noting that he
was the great-great-great-great
grandson of Enoch who we'll
talk about later in the lecture.
But Albion was banished from
his homeland in ancient Greece.
He was said to be
a giant himself.
And he was begotten
by the sea-god
whom the Greeks called
Poseidon, or the Romans Neptune.
This was recorded back
in the 17 and 1800s.
And it said that he
established a colony here.
And the giants who were
with him ruled the country
for many thousands of years.
We have another parallel
story of a princess
called Albina, or Albina,
who also came from Greece.
And she was banished here.
And there were 33 of
her and her sisters
who basically when they were
in Greece, they become--
they were forced
to marry 33 princes
and decided against that
and slit their throats
and then fled.
And they landed in the
country of Britain.
And when they got here, they
basically became very bored.
There was no one
around and they started
noticing these strange
demonic entities that
were called the Incubi.
And eventually, they
started breeding with them
and they gave birth
to what became
known as the giants of Britain.
And these giants bred between
themselves, the Albina
and her sisters bred
with their sons.
It all became a bit
incestuous, shall we say.
But it became so much giants
occurring and spreading
through ancient Britain
that they kind of
took over the land.
They became cannibals and they
started like fighting even
between themselves.
Even Merlin himself was
said to have been fathered
by one of these Incubi
whom he inherited
is supernatural powers from.
But he also had
prophetic abilities
and shapeshifting talent.
So he was like a shaman
in his own right.
And this is who
these Incubi were
thought to be connected with.
And he also had
his mother who was
said to have been a sorceress.
So you can see how Merlin
got all his traits.
And we'll come on
to Merlin later
because he's connected also
with the giants of Stonehenge.
These giants who
were born of Albina,
or the earlier giants of
Albion, later kind of eventually
some of them survived
when Brutus, the Trojan
turned up with his army after
they had fled from Greece
after the Trojan War.
And it said that
Carinus and Brutus
himself met giants
on the South Coast
and actually battled
with a giant, Gogmagog,
who him and his clan were
said to be the remaining
giants from Albina's offspring,
or in some other traditions,
from Albion's offspring.
And eventually, the
army defeated the giants
and they captured Gogmagog.
And some stories, they
say they threw him
off the cliffs of the South
Coast and he died there.
And others say he was captured
and taken to London where
now they kind of founded
London called Trinovantum,
or Londinium, and so forth.
And eventually, they have
them placed at the Guildhall
to protect London.
And so it became-- later it
became Gog and Magog rather
than Gogmagog.
And we know that Gogmagog,
or Gog and Magog,
were actually kind of
referred to in the Bible
in the whole book of Revelation.
So we have yet more
connections there.
And they've been guarding
that up until the present day.
And even today, they are
paraded around London
at the Lord Mayor's
Show every November.
And the fact that
they're in the Guildhall
is interesting because a
giant bone, a giant femur
bone, a thigh bone, was on
display there for many years.
But if we go back
to the traditions
of Merlin and earlier, we
have this story of Stonehenge.
And this is where it kind of
gets a little bit strange.
A lot of people don't
realize that the earliest
name of Stonehenge
was the giant's
dance, or Choreogigantum.
And I mentioned this briefly
in the panel the other day.
And this is an image.
This is actually
the earliest image
on the left here of Stonehenge.
And it has a giant
and King Ambrosius
and Merlin, who Tony
just pointed out,
he's kneeling there on the left.
And he actually looks like
he could be a giant himself
if he was standing upright.
And it said that thousands of
years ago, giants of Africa
brought the stones of
Stonehenge over from there
to a place called
Killaraus in Ireland,
where they stood for
thousands of years.
And eventually, King
Ambrosius summoned his army
after a great defeat in one of
their battles in the Wiltshire
area to bring the stones
over and build a monument
to the slain.
And basically, the
15,000 strong army
went over there with Uther
Pendragon as the leader.
And they couldn't budge
one stone from Killaraus.
So they had to send for Merlin.
And it's said that he used magic
and sleight to move the stones.
Other traditions have him
using gears and engines.
So either he was
using levitation magic
or he was using some
kind of high technology.
And apparently, he moved
all the stones on his own
and reconstructed them in the
landscape of the Salisbury
Plain, where they were known
then as the giant stars.
And this was recorded in the
history of the Kings of Britain
in the 1100s.
Now the fact that these stones
came from North Africa always
compelled me.
I always wondered, is there
any kind of proof of this?
Well, when you actually
look in some of the sites
in Libya, for
instance, near Tripoli,
we have these remarkably
Stonehenge-like trilithons
found all over the
landscape there.
Now these-- and they even
have mortise and tenon joints,
like we find in Stonehenge,
where the tops of the stones
have a little nub
on them so they
connect to the stones,
the lintels above them.
We even have some from just
over the border in Tunisia,
we have these trilithons.
Orthodox archeologists
claim their great presses,
but actually there's
actually stories
that they go back many
thousands of years.
And there's even evidence
of giants here at a site
called Dougga in Tunisia, where
supposedly giant slaves were
kept by the Romans at this time.
So we actually have giants
and we have trilithons
in North Africa.
And this is where the stones
of Stonehenge came from.
So this is obviously Stonehenge.
And you can see there
are trilithons here,
just like we find here.
Now Stonehenge is the
premier megalithic site
in ancient Britain.
It's by far not the largest.
It's actually quite small
compared to Avebury or Stanton
Drew, and other sites.
But it's unique.
It's the only place here that
really has these trilithons,
has this style connected.
They have carved
beautiful stones.
And as we'll see,
there are connections
in Stonehenge with
the measurements
and with the way they've shaped
the stones to Egypt, Peru,
and other ancient
cultures around the world.
One of these stories about
Stonehenge goes back to 1666.
It was recorded by
a Reverend Robert
Gay who wrote "A Fool's Bolt
Soon Shot at Stonehenge".
And this was a really
interesting and obscure book.
It wasn't really
published until 1725.
And it talked about a race
of giants called the Cangi,
or the Cangi, also known
as the Cangick giants.
And this gentleman
lived in Somerset.
He was an interesting
fellow himself.
He was-- although
he was a reverend,
he was also a bit
of an anarchist.
And he actually set fire
to government buildings
during the Civil War in 1643
and went to prison for it.
So got a little bit of
respect for this guy as well.
So when he wrote this
book, it kind of came out
and this was a time
when lots of books
were coming out about Stonehenge
in the late 16, early 1700s.
He actually influenced John
Aubrey and William Stukeley,
for instance.
And he wrote about
Stonehenge and he
wrote about these giants who are
said to have built Stonehenge
as like a monument
to a battle that they
won against an invading army.
And the stones themselves,
that configuration,
was said to represent like
a circle of dancing giants
dancing around in this circle.
Hence, the name
the giant's dance.
And so this really intrigued me.
He also found this
connection with the can name.
He believed it was connected,
not only with-- it was recorded
in local sites, local areas.
And you can see
some of the examples
here, like Bishops Canning, All
Canning, Calne, Canford Magna,
Little Canford, and so forth.
Cannington, et cetera.
But he also believed it was
connected with the Canaanites.
And he even, back then,
he thinks in tradition,
there was this sort
of vague association
that he recorded in his
book linking it again
with the Bible lands.
He believed the Canaan
was like-- the C-A-N came
from Cangi, or Cangi,
or the other way around.
And because he believed
both had traditions
of sacrificing their
victims, descriptions
of skeletal remains, the
size of the kind of skeletons
that were being discovered
were very similar.
And they both traditions
had 10 principal commanders
in their army.
So he put it all
together and believed
there was this connection.
And I believe he might
be right, as we'll
see as we go through this talk.
One of the things you might
notice Stonehenge, which
is weirdly recorded by Reverend
Robert Gay back in 1666,
in Stonehenge, if you
look go inside the stones,
you see lots of these
almost like striations,
these scoop marks in the stone.
It's almost like the
stone has been softened
and they've used like an
ice cream scoop to shape it.
And you can see that here.
You can see it on
various stones here.
You've got this
one here as well.
And this is kind of intriguing
because in his book,
he wrote that the giants,
the Cangick giants actually
softened the stone,
turned it to powder,
and reformed it
into any shape they
wanted to create Stonehenge.
So what he's basically
talking about
is geopolymer, something that
Joseph Davidovitz only came up
with as an idea, a
hypothesis for the pyramids
and other megalithic sites
like 20 or 30 years ago.
And so he was talking
about this in 1666.
So did they really
soften the stones?
And you can see like this
strange shaping in the stones
here.
And we find very
similar-- we even
find a shepherd's crook
carved in one of the stones
here at Stonehenge.
And even like a nub like
you find in Peru and Egypt.
And you can see some of
the comparisons here.
So he kind of really talked
about this in great detail
that it was one of
their special qualities
that these giants had.
And we must remember that even
the Cyclops of ancient Greece
had the same kind of
technology, where they
could soften and manipulate,
and reform stone any way
they wanted.
And so there's a new science
has emerged potentially
claiming that this is how
these stone structures were put
together, and yet
there's traditions
that go back hundreds and
possibly thousands of years.
So this is a technology we don't
really understand just yet.
And here on the top,
you can see these
are the different
kind of shapings
you find at Stonehenge.
On the bottom left,
you have Machu Picchu.
On the bottom right, you
have Aswan Quarry from Egypt.
And they all look very similar.
Is it the same people
doing it perhaps,
or is it just a
tradition or a technique
of these ancient master builders
sharing this information?
Even at Stanton Drew
Stone Circle in Somerset,
we have triple stone circle.
It's an incredible site.
It goes back to
2,700 to 3,000 BC.
And it's thought that
the Cangi in tradition
built this site as well
because the stones here
are like conglomerate.
They're like kind
of Millstone Grit,
but they're also-- there's
various different types
of stone there.
But actually, it's like
they've been reformed.
You've got Pebbles in them.
And so the tradition, which
is recorded back in the 1600s,
that they also build this site.
It was one of their
primary sites in the area.
Now, this has
interesting geometry
linking along the edges of the
circles, advanced astronomy,
and geodesy, linking
it with other sites
across the landscape, as well as
intricate measurement systems,
very similar to what we
find at Stonehenge and even
at places like Gobekli Tepe.
So this just shows you the
domain really of these Cangick
giants.
This is like the West Country.
These skulls represent
giant accounts
we've discovered in this area.
There's a famous nine-foot
skeleton from Glastonbury.
We have some from
Portland down South.
We have others up from
even Weston-super-Mare,
we have an over nine-foot
giant discovered there,
as well as a seven-foot
skeleton found
chained up in the dungeon
in Dunster Castle.
If we go slightly
to the East, we
have the whole
Stonehenge Wiltshire,
kind of Salisbury area, where
obviously we have Stonehenge.
We have Avebury.
We have the Salisbury Giant,
which we'll talk about shortly.
But even here, we find many
accounts of actual skeletons,
even right in the
vicinity of Stonehenge.
The first one we came across
in our research was from 1719.
And it recorded a 9
foot 4 inch skeleton
found in a mound called the
giant's grave in Salisbury,
which is basically the
closest city to Stonehenge.
And this is really part of the
greater Stonehenge landscape.
And this was recorded.
We found two or three
accounts of this
and it became like a bit
of a sensation at the time.
And so a 9 foot 4
inch skeleton found
in a mound called
the giant's grave is
compelling information.
We also found this account.
This goes back to 1508.
And I mentioned this briefly
in the panel as well.
This is recorded and
documented again in 1802,
but we think it was
1508 we worked it
out as to when it was found.
And this was discovered by
the father and Thomas Elyot
himself in 1508.
It was also recorded
and witnessed
by William Camden
and John Leland.
And these were well-known
authors and scholars
at the time.
Thomas Elyot, he was
an MP for Cambridge.
He was a sir.
He was knighted.
He wrote the first
Latin dictionary.
He was a very smart,
very interesting guy.
And when he came out that he'd
witnessed and been involved
in the discovery of a 14
foot 10 inch skeleton,
you can imagine it
caused a sensation.
And you also have
to question, would
someone of this caliber lie?
It's highly unlikely.
This is what the discovery
we think looked like.
It was found at a place
called Ivychurch Priory, just
South of Salisbury.
It's all been built over now.
We've checked it out.
But the story states that
they found this strange book
at the foot of this 14
foot 10 inch skeleton.
They also found this lid--
sorry, this metal disk.
It was described as
a lid or a tabletop.
It was like this big and it
was made of lead and tin.
And it had these same
strange inscriptions on it
that none of them
could decipher.
None of these scholars
could decipher at the time.
I suggest that it was
Canaanite script or Phoenician
script because it kind of fits
in with all the stories that
are coming out from this area.
And so this kind of
intrigued me that we
found two really interesting
very big skeletons
found in the Stonehenge area.
And we started looking
into other traditions.
And I visited the
Salisbury Museum
and found something
quite interesting there.
There was an actual
giant on display.
However, this giant was
made of papier mache.
And it had been paraded--
well, variations of it.
It's been rebuilt
over the years.
It's 24-foot giant
kind of effigy
this had been part
of this pageant
since the 1400s in Salisbury
paraded around the city
every Saint John
the Baptist Day,
which is two or three days
after the summer solstice.
And there was all this
secret guild of tailors,
this kind of secret society
was involved in creating this.
All the different
kings and queens
would come and
witness this giant.
He had a giant sword, a mace
head, this strange hobby horse
as well.
And it would be paraded around
and revered and kind of honored
every year.
He would come out for
special occasions as well.
Eventually, he became
known as Saint Christopher.
And this kind of intrigued
us because if any of you
know Saint Christopher, he
was also known as Reprobus.
He was also a Canaanite
from the Bible lands.
And so this really got us.
He was said to be five
qubits or 7 and 1/2 feet tall
in some accounts.
Other accounts have him
up to 12 qubits tall,
which would be 18 feet.
He was said-- he was famous for
carrying Jesus on his shoulder
across a river and he wanted to
leave this Canaanite army-- he
was one of their kind
of primary warriors--
and follow Christ basically.
So he carried Christ across this
river, became famous for it.
He became sainted.
He's now the patron saint of
traveling and exploration,
so he's one of my heroes.
But why is there a
Canaanite giant associated
with this area near Stonehenge?
It all just starts
fitting together.
The other thing about
Stonehenge as well,
which is one of my
favorite areas of research,
is this geodetic
connection with other sites
and what this means.
It links up with something
that Robin Heath discovered
called the Lunation Triangle
between Lundy Island, which
is actually shaped like an
elbow, the Preseli Bluestone
site where the bluestones
from Stonehenge came from
and Stonehenge itself.
It forms a 5, 12, 13
Pythagorean triangle.
And I kind of found
this interesting
because these giants are often
associated with surveying.
They are often
associated with geodesy,
which means the placement of
sites across the landscape.
Often, they're
astronomical sight lines.
Often, it's a measuring
system across huge areas, even
the whole planet.
And we keep finding
giant connections each
of these points.
Preseli, for instance, I'm not
going to read all this out,
but we found two or
three giant skeletons,
bones, and skulls,
and teeth being
discovered in this direct area
where these bluestones came
from.
We also found an 8 foot
and an 8 and 1/2, 8
foot 7 inch skeleton
being found on Lundy
Island, the other point
on this giant triangle.
And this is interesting
because the bottom line
of the actual alignment here
passes through Glastonbury
and through Dunster
Castle, both where
giants have been discovered.
Lundy Island itself is a
very interesting place.
And strangely, just
for geodetic purposes,
from Stonehenge to this point on
Lundy Island, it's 123.4 miles.
So 1, 2, 3, 4 miles basically.
So you've got little
things they're
playing with here to
do with measurements,
which we'll come on to as
being a very important soon.
Lundy Island was
seen by the Celts
as the Island of the Dead.
Great kings were ferried to
the West to the sacred island
to be buried.
It's said that it was
always shrouded in mist.
It was rarely seen
from the mainland
and hidden from the profane.
And it was only known about
by an ancient priestly elite.
Even the Romans
spoke of the island
as having a specially
Holy race of men
who refused trade
and had visions
of the future resided there.
And so the Romans spoke
about this like druidic elite
that were there.
And I believe these were the
8 foot and 8.7 foot skeletons,
which were found at
this part of the island.
This is myself when I had
longish hair and Robin Heath.
We were over there in 2007.
We actually discovered or
found a egg-shaped stone circle
when we were on the island on a
late hunter's trip over there.
That's on the
bottom right there.
There's the view of it.
These are the actual burials
of the skeletons that
were found or reported in 1876.
Funnily enough, they were
from a place called Paradise
on the island and
they were discovered
by a Mr. Heaven,
which I thought was
quite an interesting anomaly.
But it was reported
over and over again
and witnessed by many people.
It ended up being
about 25 different news
accounts that we uncovered.
So there's probably many more.
So Lundy Island is
a fascinating place.
It's really a fascinating place.
And there's more--
there's more to this.
We have these connections,
these geodetic connections
we keep finding.
This is, again,
Robin Heath who's
like an absolute master,
one of my mentors.
So what is going on here?
Why are these giants connected
with this kind of surveying?
And we'll come onto
that a bit later,
but there's much more to
this than meets the eye.
So the Cangick giants, they
were flourishing in Somerset.
We know the nine-foot skeleton
was found in Glastonbury
Abbey in the late 1100s.
We have other accounts
from Sturton Caundell.
We have Wedmore where giant
teeth and skull fragments were
found, and many more, so
where these so-called Cangick
giants were said to reside.
And this was mainly
up on the Mendip Hills
where there's huge
amounts of earthworks,
like the pretty Earth circles.
There's mounds up there.
There's a whole tin mining
complex up there as well.
And they were said
actually, strangely,
to have originated
from a place called
Mold in North Wales,
which is where we're
going to head to next because we
find more traditions of giants
that seem to have
these odd connections
with the biblical giants.
And these are some
of the skulls.
Shows you some of the accounts
that we found in Wales.
But also, there's a story
of the Children of Don.
Now these are really
important people
who are said to come
from this lost land.
Described as immortal,
superhuman, strong, vital,
and wielded magic as normally as
later warriors wielded swords.
And they were said to have
come from a home kind of lost
in the sea somewhere.
They settled in the
mountains of Wales,
what we know as Gwynedd, which
my good friend Hugh Evans
has done amazing research on.
And they establish
these citadels
and they were surveying the land
from these particular areas.
So these were like
the gods of Wales,
and no one really
knows about this.
I mean, I didn't know
about this before I
started researching this.
This is very similar
to the Tuatha De
Danann, or the Fomorians
of ancient Ireland.
We also have the
story of Hu Gadarn
as well, who was a very early
culture hero of ancient Wales.
Also called Hu the Mighty.
And he was often
associated with the serpent
power or the alchemical form of
Earth magic and weather magic
even, which is something we find
a lot of these giant graves,
if you disturb them,
great storms occur.
So they're protected
by this weather magic.
And he was actually
said, strangely,
to come from the Bosphorus
area of Turkey many thousands
of years ago.
He was associated with the plow.
He was associated with fertility
and working with the landscape,
and teaching, and
bringing iron--
sorry, bringing metals and
stone from within the Earth
and constructing
sites, and so forth.
So even this culture
hero of ancient Wales
who was kind of linked
with the Children of Don,
but it was actually a
different giant kind of ruler.
And so it just
gets strange and we
keep finding more and
more of these connections.
And it's just lots
of text, which
I'm not going to read out,
but I kind of explained this.
But it just-- the more
you look into this,
the more you find
these odd connections.
This is just one
of the areas that
was supposed to be inhabited
by the Children of Don.
But perhaps the most
interesting area
that I'm absolutely
fascinated by
and I know Andrew Collins
is, and Hugh Evans, we've
been up there a few times is
a site called Cadair Idris.
This is the sacred
mountain of North Wales
in the location of Snowdonia.
It translates as Idris is
chair, or Idris is seat.
And this Idris character
is very, very interesting.
He's certainly connected
with the Bible lands.
There are traditions from
these kind of modern day druids
back in the 17
and 1800s who talk
about Idris being one of the
Holy astronomers of Britain,
one of three.
And he was so great, was
their knowledge of the stars
and of their natures
and influences
that they could
foretell whatever
anyone might wish to know
till the day of judgment.
So these were master
astronomers observing
from their mountaintop
fortresses.
And Idris was always known
as a giant, a giant ruler.
He would toss stones
from his mountain top.
They would land in
triangular configurations
across the landscape.
And you can actually visit
some of these sites now.
There's a site called
[INAUDIBLE] There's other ones.
And stones would
fall out of his shoe,
which were like 20 feet tall.
And he was basically able to
see all the coasts of the land.
He would be able to see into
the future and the past.
And Idris himself was this
master astronomer and surveyor.
And so we've actually
created this image here.
This image actually--
Andrew gave me.
This is from a farm
just at the South
of Cadair Idris
where they actually
found some giant skeletons
with hazel rods in the burial.
So we're talking about
this legendary giant ruler
astronomer, but at the
base of the mountain
actually find the skeletons
that match the legend.
This is Llyn Cau.
This is like the
sacred lake of-- this
is a view from the top and you
can see the coast from here.
And on the left there where
there's a dip in the mountains,
sort of cliff head, cliff
face, is Idris's seat.
This is where the giant would
sit and survey and observe
his land from.
This is the actual
account of the skeletons
being discovered in the 1600s.
And this hazel rod
thing is interesting
because hazel rods are always
associated with dowsing.
These are the
traditional dowsing tools
of the ancient people of
Britain and in other parts
of the world.
Now Idris is-- in
earlier traditions,
he was also known as Enoch.
And this is something
that some of us
have been researching
for a little while now,
Andrew and Hugh, and myself.
And we've been to
an area down called
Haran, which
Andrew's traveled to
and researched a
lot over the years.
And there's a mound of Idris
or tell Idris down there.
And Idris himself
was said to have
been the founder of geomancy.
He was also said to be
connected with Hermes.
He was connected--
he was possibly
the builder of the pyramids
and so on and so forth.
And he was said
to have come over
to possibly Britain written
about in the Book of Enoch
because Enoch is Idris.
And it's just an
image of him here.
This is a William Blake's
lithograph from 1807.
He was a seventh
in line from Adam.
And it was said to
have been the scribe
of the watchers of
the Book of Enoch
or the Anunnaki of
Sumerian tradition.
And he became kind of
entrusted as their kind
of scribe, their kind of--
almost like kind of following
them around and observing what
they were doing.
And he became a kind
of master himself
from being taught by
these angelic beings
in the biblical tradition.
But actually, I believe
these were human beings
and they may have been involved
in a very early phase at sites
like Gobekli Tepe.
But there's a few
little passages
which have always
fascinated me, like this
from the Book of Enoch.
And this is one of the
lost books of the Bible
if you're not aware,
but I think people
have been talking about this
over the weekend anyway.
And it claims that--
and I saw in those days
how long cords were given to
the Angels, or the watchers.
And they took themselves
wings and flew,
and went towards the north.
And I asked an Angel,
saying unto him,
why have they taken
cords and gone off?
And he replied, they
have gone to measure.
And these measures shall
reveal all the secrets
of the depths of the Earth.
Now, as you go through this
part of the Book of Enoch,
you find kind of
references going
to these northern latitudes
and like flying there.
Now this is kind of
ancient aliens territory
we're getting into now.
But I'll stick with what we
know, the aspects that I'm
fascinated by here.
We've got things
like the North winds.
It was cold, hail, frost,
snow, dew, and rain, very much
like Blackpool, ancient
Britain, et cetera.
And I really believe-- and
my good friend Robin Heath
wrote about this in 1999.
It was also published in
"Uriel's Machine" the year
later--
that they were trying to work
out or calculate because it was
quite detailed kind
of lengths of the day,
making observations
from within what
appear to be stone circles from
going through these portals
or windows, which could
be in between the stones
of Stonehenge.
And they worked out--
he basically worked out
that the latitude could be that
of very close to Stonehenge
or somewhere between
Cornwall and North Wales
really, so anywhere
in that region.
Now the fact that
this was written
about in this lost book of the
Bible is very, very intriguing.
This is actually the
analysis that Robin
did from his book, "Sun,
Moon, and Stonehenge."
And it took a long while
trying to calculate this.
And he came up really with this.
And also one of the
old books of some
of the old stories
from Wales talk
about in the tales
of Taliesin actually
state-- they actually
talk about Enoch.
And it reads, I was
instructor to Eli or Enoch.
And this was written
in the Mabinogion,
going way back several
years and recorded
from earlier oral traditions of
the druids and the Welsh baths.
And so why is Enoch
even mentioned
in these early
accounts from Wales
if there's not some
connection here?
Even in Carn Enoch, in the
Preseli Bluestone area,
we actually find these calendar
grooves carved in stone.
So what's that doing here?
Were they marking
this particular spot?
calendrical information
at the spot they were
going to then build
Stonehenge from location-wise?
I'm absolutely
fascinated by this.
I mean, obviously,
we go into more
detail in the book about this.
I'm just trying to summarize
some of the information here.
But even up at Callanish in
the outer Hebrides, there's
a tradition that talks about
that sunrise or midsummer's
day, the shiny one, a person,
walked along the avenue.
He's coming heralded by the call
of the cuckoo, the bird of Tir
Nan Og, which is a lost land out
somewhere out in the Atlantic,
or the Celtic land of youth.
Another tradition is that a
priest king came to the island,
bring him with him stones
and men to raise them.
He was attended to
by other priests
and the whole company wore robes
of bird skins and feathers.
And not only is there kind of
like druid kind of traditions
kind of mentioned here, but also
this bird skin and feathers,
which is something that we find
with the watchers of the Bible
lands.
They're described
not really as having
wings as such, but
more like they're
wearing feathered robes.
So this absolutely
fascinates me.
And there's also the
story up in this--
potentially, he's
talking about Callanish.
Is that the god Apollo
from Greek tradition
was said to have
flown to this region
every 19 years to rejuvenate.
And this is really an analogy
of the 18.6-year cycle
of the moon, where at
these northerly latitudes,
you have the sleeping
beauty that every year--
it's actually a next year
I think or the year after--
we can observe the sun
rolling across the landscape.
It doesn't quite
set because it's
at its most extreme
position during these 18.6
or 19-year cycles.
And so we have Apollo associated
with this land as well.
We have other suggestions
that this was even
Hyperborea of the
ancient Greek traditions.
We even have stories
of potentially
in the Book of Enoch,
of the shining ones
visiting Newgrange as well
in Ireland, which is, again,
very, very interesting.
It talks about
these ancient texts,
these ancient Irish animals
talk about a group of sages
who sometime in the
third Millennium BC,
they were described as the
men of science who were gods
and the laymen no gods.
So whatever that
means, we don't know.
But they talk about, strangely--
in the description, they talk
about really bad weather.
They talk about going into this
dark chamber and fire or kind
of flames of light
occurring and it lighting up
the interior of this chamber.
They also talk about
a crystal floor,
like a tessellated
crystal floor and walls,
all these described Newgrange.
So this, again,
really fascinated me.
So were these surveyors,
were these master builders,
these watchers, coming
over from the Bible lands
as part of their
surveying of the world
possibly after the
Great Flood as part
of a kind of early
tradition of doing this?
And I believe this
might be the case.
I think there's more to
this than meets the eye.
And for those that have
visiting Newgrange,
you'll know that
the light shines
through the kind of portal
stone, the kind of light box
above the main chamber.
And we'll see that
that is actually
a similar thing as being
found at Karahan Tepe
on the exact same
time of the year,
but potentially 6,000
or 7,000 years earlier.
So let's jump over to
this part of the world
because we've seen
potential ideas
that these people from the Bible
lands, from the Garden of Eden
area, from Gobekli Tepe even,
the influence may have emerged
or reached ancient Britain.
Gobekli Tepe, we probably
know all about it.
It's like at least 9600 BC.
Andrew has written multiple
books and papers on this.
I've been visiting
there since 2013.
I'm kind of obsessed
with the place,
as I am with the other sites
that are now occurring there.
These are so old and
so sophisticated.
It's like another world
when you see this.
I mean, when you visit there,
immediately I just thought,
this is aliens.
I couldn't cope with it.
It was too much because
it's so sophisticated.
It's so advanced for
such an early date.
And now, they found
all these sites.
So it's not just one site.
It's like a civilization.
What I call a super
civilization that
links with all these
ancient stories
we've been talking about.
Only some of these
have been excavated,
but they know they're there.
They've done scans
of all these sites.
This is an overview of the main
enclosures at Gobekli Tepe.
Enclosure C and D are
the prominent ones here.
And they're between
60, 75 feet wide.
They're big-- they're
big enclosures.
These are big.
They're not small stone circles.
These are bigger
than Stonehenge.
These are huge.
And that's only a
small part of it.
The rest of it hasn't
even been excavated yet.
So we're talking about what's
been discovered is amazing.
What's yet to be discovered is
going to be world shattering.
And so you can see here some
of the enclosures that are yet
to be uncovered are
even bigger and look
more sophisticated than the
ones that have been excavated.
And so this is an
artist's impression of--
they believe they
may have had roofs.
I don't buy that at all.
I know Andrew doesn't really
buy that too much either.
Maybe they were added later.
This is just what they put up
in the museum at the site now.
But this shows you what
was going on there.
It's a kind of
half-decent explanation.
We have these giant T
pillars up to 18 feet tall,
then a circle of
pillars usually 11 or 12
or different numbers
around the perimeter.
They look almost
circular, but they're
kind of oval or elliptical,
but there's actually
interesting geometries
we'll look at in a moment,
proving there may be more
sophisticated than people
realize.
Enclosure D is being
reconstructed at the museum.
This is very impressive.
This is one of the
central pillars.
And they're resting in
this kind of shallow base.
Somehow they were being held up.
That's why people suggest
they had roofs on.
But we're not so sure.
They could have been
held up by ropes.
They could have been held
up by something else.
But just to give you--
and you have pillar 43,
the most famous one on
the bottom right there,
which has got stunning amount
of carvings on it as well.
And this just gives you--
this is my partner J.
J. This is the actual-- it's
not actually enclosure J. J.
It's actually enclosure
D. But this shows you
the scale we're talking
about because you can't
get inside the
enclosure at the site,
but they've created
this interesting kind
of reconstruction at the
museum, which is really cool.
The only thing is
the back stone there,
the one with a hole in
it, is actually slightly
in the wrong place.
But this is a huge site.
To me, this is a
very sacred site.
A lot of people claim it's
like a mundane site used
for food storage and boring
things like that, but it's not.
This is something
special about this site.
Andrew and Rodney
Hale, Andrew Collins,
went and found that they
had elliptical geometry,
so it probably had
acoustic properties.
But this absolutely
fascinated me
because this is
acoustic experiments
were carried out there and they
found some remarkable things
when they were there.
They found that some researchers
from the University of Trieste
found that enclosure D
between the central pillars
resonated around 68 to 69
Hertz with a harmonics of 91
to 138 Hertz.
This is the basic musical fifth.
And also, they found that the
shallow pit they're resting in
was to go much like to create
a kind of vibration, or hum,
so they would move
slightly, almost
like tuning forks in the wind.
When pillar 18, one of the main
central pillars was tapped,
it sung and sounded hollow.
So they've even
suggested that part
of the lower part of the
interior of one of the T
pillars might be hollowed out.
No one's ever tested or checked
this because they can't really.
So there's proven
acoustics there.
And this is what Andrew and
Rodney were saying all along.
So this is advanced
almost 12,000 years ago.
They also found a
spiral magnetic field
when they were doing
their research there.
And they recorded this
from all different angles
and it came up on
all their data.
So we're not just
talking about acoustics.
We're recording about a
magnetic anomaly being recorded
within in between the two
main pillars at enclosure D.
So this is mind-blowing.
So this opens up
a whole new thing.
This is like the work of John
Burke and the Earth energies
research him and his team
have done over the years.
And the fact that it's
now occurring much,
much earlier than
people realize may
emphasize why the agricultural
revolution took place here
because they were able to
enhance their seeds by placing
them in these spots.
The same kind of magnetic energy
compared with the acoustics,
it's going to affect
your brain chemistry.
It's going to affect your
consciousness as well.
So this was like a sacred
site they were doing things
here that people don't realize.
This is kind of the image that
they came up with about this.
They found similar results,
same magnetic anomalies,
the same acoustics in Newgrange,
they found it in places.
Parts of Stonehenge have it.
Even Avebury avenues have it.
They found it in Malta
at the hypogeum chambers
there as well.
And with all these serpents
carved all over the stones,
were these recordings
of these natural kind
of energy lines, these
telluric currents that
cause these
magnetic-- potentially
cause these magnetic anomalies?
Because we find the serpent
symbolism everywhere.
This is the sign of-- the
symbol of Enki on the left,
which I believe there's--
now I'm believing that all
the stories of Enki and Enlil
and the Sumerian
traditions of the Anunnaki
do go back to the
time of Gobekli Tepe.
And Karahan Tepe
makes sense now.
In the left, in the middle left
there, we have Gobekli Tepe.
In the middle right we have
Gozo Ggantija in Malta.
On the far right,
we have Saqqara.
So they're all representing
this serpent going up in stone,
which I believe is a
representation of these Earth
energies.
We also have geometries
that have been discovered,
like equilateral
triangles linking
the centers of these sites,
which perfectly align
with the two green entrances
you can see on the bottom right
there.
They're perfectly symmetrical.
What's interesting
about this is not
only it suggests these were
all laid out at the same time,
because archeologists have
say they might be at slightly
different times, it could have
been at least designed and put
in place at the same time.
But the orientations of it all
really interesting as well.
And this links back to Andrew's
research on Cygnus in the sky,
back at this kind of era.
This was then
analyzed and worked
on by myself and my good
friend Adam Tetlow, who's
a master ancient meteorologist
from the School of John
Michelle and John Neil.
And he found out
that if you decode
the measurements that were
found from that equilateral
triangle--
this blew my mind because
this is the first evidence
of them using Earth measurements
at any site on the planet--
he found evidence of the
Persian foot, the Sumerian foot,
the Sumerian palm, and
the royal Egyptian foot,
all found within the
enclosures at Gobekli Tepe.
Now we've just
started work on this.
And this is going to be
published later this year
or early next year in
a small wooden book
I'm writing on this.
Because if that's
the case, then these
are based on Earth measurements.
And so they must have known
the circumference and shape
and size of the Earth back
at the time of Gobekli Tepe
to get these measurements from.
These aren't chance
measurements.
So we're going to be looking
more into this as time goes by.
But other things, I just
want to just highlight
some of the geometries that
Alexander Thom found in Britain
because I decided
to look carefully
at the geometries of Gobekli
Tepe and Karahan Tepe
to see if anything that
Alexander Thom had decoded
from the British stone circles.
And they surveyed
like 600 of these
and found pretty much eight
different geometries as well as
the perfect circle, including
the ellipses, including type A,
type B flattened circles,
egg-shaped circles
with elliptical ends,
and so on and so forth.
And so this is new ish research.
We're just starting
to put this together.
We're going to keep
working on this
until we get it
absolutely bang on.
But we found that enclosure D
is an egg-shaped circle type 1,
for instance.
If this is correct,
then this is basically
the first evidence of them using
these very specific geometries.
And does it then suggest they
influenced the slow circle
builders of ancient Britain?
There are several
egg-shaped circles type 1
in the British Isles.
Now these are constructed
from a 3, 4, 5 triangle, which
is a Pythagorean triangle.
So they would certainly
working with geometry.
The ones we find in England,
and we have some examples here,
the Lundy one we found, for
instance, on Lundy Island
is this shape.
With Allan Water, which
certainly the Scottish borders.
And we have a Twelve Apostles
Circle and various other ones
up in Cumbria, up in Scotland,
some not too far from here.
But these only date back to
3,000 BC at the most, probably.
But we have one which is
slightly older, a slightly
closer to Gobekli Tepe.
And this is Nabta
Playa found in Egypt.
Now this dates back potentially
to 7,500 to 5,000 BC.
There's a big debate about
the exact dates of this.
But this is the same
kind of geometry,
if we're correct, with
enclosure D, B, and this shape.
And so what was going on here?
So we're looking at the
design, the construction
using 3, 4, 5 triangles
and astronomical sight
lines to create these
particular shapes.
We have an enclosure C, appears
to be a flattened circle
modified type B. It's
a bit of a mouthful.
But this one is the
most compelling to
me because it fits
really, really well.
It all precisely aligns
with the inner circle.
There's an outer
circle there as well,
which we need to get
more accurate a plan of.
And you can see a close up here,
just to get a sense of that.
There were numerous
stone circles
across the British Isles that
have this type of geometry.
And even the construction lines
go through the centers of the T
pillars and it
orientate perfectly
with the entrance to it as well.
So that gives it
good evidence this
is an actual deliberate design.
Possibly an enclosure A. This
one's a bit more speculative.
This is a hypothesis.
Remember, we're not claiming
this is all fact just yet.
We're still working on this.
We have a flattened circle
type D. This aligns, again,
perfectly with the
central T pillars.
And this is one of
the eight variations
that Alexander
Thom came up with.
And we have examples
not too far from here,
Greycroft in Cumbria.
Even Newgrange has a very
similar geometry as well.
So are we looking at
these builders going over,
as the tradition
state, to construct
these sites in
Britain with Enoch,
the watchers, the shining
ones, and so on and so forth?
And this is what they kind
of all looked like together.
And so to me, this is very
compelling information.
I'm a kind of obsessive number
and geometry person who kind
of always finds these
kind of strange patterns
which absolutely fascinates me.
But just to put
it in perspective,
we're talking about
such a small amount
of this has been uncovered.
What else are we going to find?
I'm kind of
predicting we're going
to find more of these
geometries, possibly
some of the other ones that
Alexander Thom came up with.
And you can see the scale of
it here in comparison to what
is yet to be discovered.
And then even up
at the Callanish,
all the different Callanish
circles, there's more than one.
Many of these show all
these different geometries
we have looked at Gobekli Tepe.
And that absolutely fascinates
me that we have that there.
The Karahan Tepe.
This is a site that I've been
visiting since 2014 with Andrew
and with J. J. Since 2018.
Andrew has been traveling
there since 2004,
so he's been at it for a lot
longer than me in that area.
But this is an absolutely
fascinating site.
I'm kind of very
interested in this site
because we've been visiting
there before it was excavated.
It was just like a hill
with these T pillars
sticking out of the ground.
We were having lunch
and tea with the kind
of family for many years.
It's in the Tektek Mountains.
It's like 25 miles
Southeast of Gobekli Tepe.
It's a little bit younger
than Gobekli Tepe,
just a few years really.
There's 250 at least
of these T pillars.
But since then, they've
actually uncovered some of it.
This is a reconstruction someone
has created of it with a roof
again, which we don't know
if it was there or not.
But we have this massive
enclosure and this--
a pit called the
AB pit, which we'll
look at a moment,
which also had,
of course, the pillar shrine.
But interestingly, I
started carefully--
I thought, well, I'll apply
Alexander Thom's geometries
to this one as well.
And it appears to be
an egg-shaped circle
with semi-elliptical
and type 2, I think.
Was it type 3?
Type 3.
And so what's going on here?
Why are they creating
these specific geometries?
And so these are some
of the artifacts that
have being found at the site.
I made videos about this all
up on my YouTube channel.
And so if this is
correct, we're going
to have this analyzed properly,
this is, again, evidence
of this very sophisticated
level of geometry
going on at a very
early day, just
after the end of
the last Ice Age.
So this absolutely blew my mind.
But on the top right
there, you can just
see this pit with all
these little pillars in it.
This is called the AB
pit or the AB enclosure.
And it's got 10 upright
pillars carved out of bedrock
with this protruding head
and this freestanding pillar,
looks almost like
half a portal stone.
And this really intrigued us.
Myself and J. J. Had a
chance to visit there.
And we synchronistically
and serendipitously ended up
going there on the
winter solstice morning.
We didn't really want to get
up that early, but we did.
We were forced to
go there because we
had a rumor they were going to
close down the site so we had
to get there before the
officials got there,
and we were going
to get in trouble.
And we witnessed something
quite remarkable.
On the left of this, you can
actually see a portal stone
where a light is coming in and
hitting the side of the face.
This was taken about 50
minutes after sunrise.
And so we thought, why is this
blade of light illuminating
this side of this
protruding stone head?
And this kind of intrigued us.
So we set the camera
up and recorded it
as this light went
through this portal
and lit up the head over
probably a 45-minute period.
And we realized, we discovered
a winter solstice sunrise
alignment, illumination of the
stone head at the site itself.
Now, it completely
blew our minds
because this is kind of
what it looks like here.
It will come through
the portal and it
would illuminate head, only at a
certain height in the sky, only
at a certain angle.
Andrew and Rodney Hale, they
analyzed this using stellarium
and found that it
fits even better when
the site was built in 9,000 BC.
So this, again, could be
the oldest winter solstice
alignment recorded
on the planet.
So we were privileged
to have been there
at just the right
time to observe this.
And as the sun rose and
rose over the portal stone,
it illuminated the top
of the head, like a halo.
So that really
intrigued us as well
because was this
like the shining one?
Was this like illuminating the
head of this great ancient god
or goddess?
Because these pillars
look very phallic.
There's a big suggestion that.
So we believe, J.
J. And I believe
this is like a fertility
site with the kind
of solar male light
beaming through the female,
into the female womb-like
chamber like you get
at Newgrange, and
illuminating it
and kind of giving birth to
this new part of the year, which
is the winter solstice is
traditionally the new year
in many ancient cultures,
potentially here
in Southeast Turkey as well.
Now I'm kind of jumping
into speculation mode
just for a moment here.
Well, probably quite a
lot of this is already.
But I found it looks
strangely similar, this head,
and there's some other
artifacts as well, they
look like these chalk drums
that are found in Britain.
Why I'm going to go
into this, I'm just
going to finish the lecture off
with this just for a few more
minutes, is that
these chalk drums
which are found up in Yorkshire
and also some down South,
when you run a
string around them,
it comes up with a
specific measurement.
And they call it--
In British, it's
called the Long Foot.
But in earlier traditions,
it's called the Persian foot,
which is 12.7 inches.
That this is the same foot
that was found at Gobekli Tepe
we're finding in
ancient Britain.
And this proves it.
And so what else we found was,
as we started looking around,
and this is someone
shared this with me.
I didn't catch who that was.
But there's basically phi,
or the golden section,
the golden ratio, being recorded
in the proportions of the T
pillars at Gobekli Tepe.
And we have to question, why
was all this information being
recorded?
And why was the site then
completely covered over?
And we think maybe there
was cataclysms going on
at this time.
There were perhaps recording
comet impacts, the Younger
Dryas.
We have stories obviously of
the Great Flood going back
then as well.
And to me, this just
suggests that there
was some kind of urgency
about recording and placing
all this knowledge
in these sites
as much as they possibly could.
So we have these
beautiful portal stones
as well we find at Gobekli
Tepe and at Karahan Tepe.
We saw that already.
But we also have them
in Britain as well.
And these are always-- the one
of the left is from Gobekli
Tepe, but this is Men-an-Tol.
These are always related to
fertility and regeneration,
and healing.
Same with the cup marks we find
at Gobekli and Karahan as well.
These are found in
Britain as well.
And so these are often
related to the same thing.
We even find them on
the top of the pillars.
We find these knobs
and cup marks,
much like we find
at Gobekli Tepe,
at our favorite site
here, Stonehenge.
And what's interesting
about Stonehenge
as well is that there's these
giant wooden post holes that
contain these 30-foot tall
pine posts, like totem poles,
potentially found a Stonehenge.
Now the thing is, these
date back to 10,000 years.
So this could be the time
when Enoch and his watchers
came over and actually
marked that spot as part
of their geodetic survey
because Stonehenge encodes
all the same kind of information
we've just looked at at Karahan
Tepe and Gobekli Tepe.
And there's even evidence
of DNA research coming over.
This is potentially a few--
a couple of years later,
but it proves there was
these migrations coming over
from this part of the world.
And even there are stories of
Enlil, Enki, and so on, Inanna.
And myself and J. J. Are working
on this very large article
and eventually a
book about all this
because you will find that
Enlil and Enki are linked
with these fertility
cults as well that we
find in all these different
parts of the world.
Obviously, William
Blake as well,
who I believe, with his
stories about Enoch,
realized there was something
going on with ancient Britain,
as well as other
parts of the world.
Some new research we're working
on with Howard Crowhurst
is we're finding all
these geodetic connections
between Gobekli Tepe, Karahan
Tepe, and other major sites
around the world.
One example here is Baalbek.
This will be coming
soon, this research.
Obvious connections with
Easter Island with this type
of iconography.
They're also both
naval sites, talking
about pointing their fingers
towards the naval or the belly
button.
Also, I noted this.
If you draw a line
between Gobekli Tepe
and the Coricancha
in Cuzco, Peru,
it measures 7,928
miles, which is
the exact equatorial
diameter of the Earth.
So were they-- and this is
also a naval site as well.
And you have exactly the
same kind of carvings.
On the right hand side of
that image is Gobekli Tepe.
On the left hand side, you've
got Cutimbo and Sillustani.
And so we're finding more
and more connections.
And I hope this has given
you some idea of where
we're going with our research,
but there's more to come.
This is kind of like
the introduction
to where we're going with this.
And we are-- if you'd
like to join us,
we do go to Turkey twice
a year, May and September.
You can see that here.
And thanks so much
for listening.
I really appreciate your time.
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]